Which of the passwords listed below is the strongest, if each password represents an example of the
strongest password possible within its associated scheme, given the character set(s) used?
Quantify your answer by clarifying both what “strongest” means and providing any relevant
quantitative metrics to back up your chosen answer.
A) “171772299934992228222”
B) “sHkUDH728s”
C) “gloss badger tint“


Compared to a lot of passwords I've seen, they all have a level of complexity that is often neglected by users unless prompted to follow a pattern (upper case/numbers/symbols etc.). 

C is arguably (but read to the end!) least secure as it only contains lower case English words that can easily by found using a dictionary, also spaces in the password could be rejected by the system that is asking for a password to be generated. It will be easily memorable by an end user, so should (hopefully) not be compromised by being written down near the computer.

B is relatively complex in that is uses uppercase and numbers and is 10 digits longs, however is not memorable to an end user.
A is long but has little complexity as it only uses numbers.

There always seems to be new recommandations for how to come up with a password eg. a letter/number/special character; different from your last x passwords; not use personal details.

"Through 20 years of effort, we've successfully trained everyone to use passwords that are hard for humans to remember, but easy for computers to guess" - XKCD

I recently did a course on web dev and they talked about hashing and salting passwords, apparantly passwords with a combination of all characters up to 6 digits long will give you ~20B combinations, whereas dictionary words give around 150k combinations. 

The suggestion is that the more characters in a password you have, it takes exponentially more time to crack.

There's a good website to check passwords and how long it could take to crack - http://password-checker.online-domain-tools.com/ 

Password A could take about 4 million years on a desktop computer
Password B about 3000 years
Password C About 4 quadrillion years

So in actual fact C is the most secure according to the password checker!






